Alhamdu Lillahi Rabbil Alameen
Ar-Rahman Ar-Rahim
Maliki Yawm Al-Din
Iyyaka Na'budu Wa Iyyaka Nastayim
Ihdina Sirata Al-Mustaqeem
Sirata Al-Laleen An'ant Alayhim
Ghayri Al-Mawdob Alayhim
Assalamu Alaikum Warahmatullahi Wabarakatuh
Bismillah Ar-Rahman Ar-Rahim Al-Hamdu Lillahi Rabbil Alameen
Wabiyya Nastayim Wa Nusalli Wa Nusallim
Ala Afzal Al-Khalqi Ajmaeen Nabi'ina Muhammad
Wa Ala Alihi Wa Sahbihi Wa At-Tabi'ina Wa Man Tabi'ahum
Bi Ihsanin Ila Yawm Al-Din Wa Ba'd
We praise Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and send blessings and salutations upon Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
His entire household may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless all of them as well as his companions
And may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless every single one of us
Ameen
Beloved brothers and sisters
We had seen how after the treaty of Hudaybiyah
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Decided to send letters to the various leaders and kings in the region and even outside the region
This was the first time that ambassadors were sent in this particular way
Where a letter was written
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam being unlettered
He instructed people from his companions who could write
To write the letters
They were short to the point
The message was delivered
And the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam sent his ambassadors across
We heard about Dihya Ibn Khalifah Al-Kalbi r.a
Who was sent to Heraclius of the Roman Empire
Who was based in a sham because that was under the Roman Empire
He was not the king of the Romans
But he was the emperor at the time of that particular area that fell under the Roman Empire
So we also heard of how he reacted and how he asked several questions
And the fact that he knew what was right and wrong
But because he wanted to stick to his throne
And he did not want to earn the wrath of his own men
And that is why he did not accept the message
But he sent back Dihya Ibn Khalifah Al-Kalbi with much respect
A point that we learn from this particular incident is
When the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam wrote a letter to this Heraclius
His companions told him this man is not going to read your letter
Because in order to officialize letters which go to the Romans
You need to have a stamp on the letter
So the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam then asked some of his companions what should be done
And they suggested to him that he get a ring that was made of silver with his name on it
Muhammadun Rasulullah
And what would happen is normally it would be written starting from the bottom going up
So Muhammadun Rasulullah
And therefore he had a ring
This was not part of jewelry
But it was part of the stamping
That the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam had decided to do
Because of the letters that had to be sent to these Romans
And the fact that they would not be read unless they had a stamp
We learn a lot from this
This was something that was not the way of the Muslims
But it became the way of the Muslims when the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam did it
He heard that they were doing it
And therefore in order to give the message across or to get the message across
He decided to do something that was new to Islam and the Muslims
And from this very interesting point that I just want to add in here
Some of the people say it is Sunnah to wear a silver ring
And some of the scholars say no, it is a Sunnah to wear a ring
If you cannot read and write and you have your name inscribed on it
And you would like to stamp letters
So it's just a little difference of opinion
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us and grant us the acceptance
To follow the Sunnah of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Many times we find we just follow that which is convenient for us
And when it comes to those things that are a little bit more difficult
We tend to ignore them completely
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors
So the hadith of this ring is mentioned in Sahih al-Bukhari
Reported by Anas ibn Malik radiallahu anhu
And he says I could actually see the white mark on the finger of Rasulullah
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam from the ring
The other letter that was sent was sent to Kisra
The Persians what we know today as Iran
That is where Kisra was based
And the man sent to him was Abdullah ibn Hudhafah al-Sahmi radiallahu anhu
Whether he got exactly to Kisra right there
Or whether the letter was then taken by one of Kisra's men
There are two narrations
But when Kisra got the letter of the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He became so angry, so upset
Who is this man?
He ripped the letter of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Threw it on the floor and stamped on it
What a great disrespect
When the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam heard of this reaction
He said
May Allah rip his kingdom as well
In the same way he has ripped our letter
There was no need to rip the letter
So it is reported that within a very short space of time
There was civil war in Persia
And his own son murdered him and took over
And there was chaos which resulted in the end of that particular empire
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam grant us strength
And may He grant us a lesson
We do not disrespect that which is sacred in the eyes of Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam open our doors
Then there was An-Najashi
We know the Negus who was based in Abyssinia
The Muslims but with the leadership of Ja'far ibn Abi Talib radiallahu anhu
Were sent for the first migration to Abyssinia
They were still there
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam wrote another letter to him
Several letters were actually written to this Najashi
His name was Ashamah
And the Negus was just the title given to the leader of Abyssinia
Where we would say Ethiopia, Eritrea that is today
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam grant us all a lesson from what had happened
When the letter came, it came with Amr ibn Abi Umayyah al-Zamri radiallahu anhu
And he presented it to An-Najashi
An-Najashi read it
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam always wrote
Connecting the writing to the beliefs of the particular person he was writing to
So when he wrote to An-Najashi, he made a few clarifications about Jesus may peace be upon him
This is who he was and this is what we believe he is and so on
So An-Najashi read the letter
He thereafter said, look, I know that this is all correct
I actually believe it
But I would like you to know that I don't have much support amongst my top brass
And therefore give me a little bit of time
And I will then gain that support
And thereafter, I will announce that we have accepted this faith and so on
So these are the narrations that make mention of the Negus of Abyssinia and what his response was
And thereafter, it is also made mention of another letter that was written to An-Najashi
Which I will pause for a moment and make mention of right now
There was a Sahabiyya known as Ramla binti Abi Sufyan
The daughter of Abu Sufyan himself
Her name was Ramla binti Abi Sufyan
She was married to a man known as Ubaidillahi ibn Jahsh
The brother of Abdullah ibn Jahsh
This Ubaidillahi ibn Jahsh with his wife Ramla binti Abi Sufyan
They were from amongst the believers who believed early and they had migrated to Abyssinia
This man passed away
Exactly how he passed away, there are different narrations
Some say he had developed bad habits and so on
And he passed away
And this daughter of Abu Sufyan, she was now known as Ummu Habibah
Because she had had a child known as Habibah from Ubaidillahi ibn Jahsh
So because she was the daughter of the leader and now she is without a husband
What should she do? She was an elderly lady, she wasn't a young girl
And she had made Hijra
She was from amongst the first believers which means if we were to make them
Or if we were to consider those who had accepted Islam before the migration to Abyssinia
As the first believers, she was from amongst them
And so if she returned to Mecca, she was going to be persecuted
Being what a disgrace to Abu Sufyan being a leader
And his daughter is following Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
And if she was to go elsewhere, what would happen to her?
So the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam wrote a letter to An-Najashi
Sent it with one of his companions
And told him that when this woman has completed her iddah, a certain period of time
Then I would like to marry her
So she was married to Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
While she was still in Abyssinia
Under the eye of this An-Najashi that the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam had sent
And her guardian was a man known as Khalid ibn Saeed ibn al-Aas radiallahu anhu
Ummu Habibah radiallahu anhu became known as Ummu al-Mumineen
She became known as the mother of the believers Ramla binti Abi Sufyan
And by this action, the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam became very closely related to Abu Sufyan radiallahu anhu
So much so that he was married to his own daughter
So this had happened in Abyssinia
And later on, the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam had instructed the man who had carried the letter
Who was Amr ibn Umayyah al-Dumri or al-Dumri radiallahu anhu
To find out about those who had migrated and informed them that we are sitting in a period of grace
And you may now return to Al-Madinatul Munawwara
They began to plan and to prepare
And they later started their journey inshallah
We will get to when they arrived in Madinatul Munawwara
Just as the victory of Khaybar was announced
This is when Ja'far ibn Abi Talib and the others had arrived in Madinatul Munawwara together with Ummu Habibah radiallahu anhu
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala be pleased with her
So if you look at Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam's marriages
They were always out of the mercy that Allah had placed in his heart
For those who had sacrificed for the purpose of the deen
He had gone forth in order to save them from difficulty
To give them the guardianship that they needed
And in order to be a pillar of support and strength for them
And this had happened in most of the cases as you know
He only married one virgin
The rest of them were non-virgins
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a lesson from this
Where are those who want to point fingers at Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
They cannot even be kind to their own wives and they want to speak
Sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
He had such a great concern that he used to encourage his companions
To look after the widows, the divorce, the orphans
Those who have sacrificed for the pleasure of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Thereafter another letter was sent to a man known as Muqawqis
Al Muqawqis, he was the leader of Egypt at the time
And it is reported that Hatib ibn Abi Balta'ah
According to some historians
Was sent to Al Muqawqis with the letter
This man got the letter, he did not accept Islam
He understood very well what the letter said
And he decided look let me send some gifts with this man
Hatib ibn Abi Balta'ah
Radhiallahu antu Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
And he makes mention of something important
He wrote back a letter
And he says look I have understood what you said and what you know
So on and I am sending you a few gifts from amongst them
Are two ladies
Now the term Jariya does not necessarily refer to slave girls
No, it also refers to young girls
And it refers to young ladies as well
You could say a Jariya referring to a young girl
So he says I am sending you two of these girls
Who are from the highest lineages of the Qibla
The Aqbaat are the Coptic Christians of Egypt
And remember Christianity and Islam
As well as Judaism
They come from the same lantern as what Najashi had said
From the same lantern meaning the pure form of Judaism
And the pure form of Christianity
Would lead you to the pure form of Islam
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
And then when he had sent
He sent an animal as well a mule according to some narrations
To Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
With a few other gifts
And the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Then took Maria al-Qibtiya
And according to some narrations married her
And according to some narrations he remained with her
As a person who was gifted to him sallallahu alaihi wasallam
I would incline more to the narration
That states that he married her sallallahu alaihi wasallam
He had a child from her known as Ibrahim
Ibn Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Who passed away in his infancy
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to grant us goodness
Many of us sometimes look at those who have lost children in their infancy
And we lose track of the words we want to say to them
One of the most powerful words we could utter to them
After the dua and the reminder that everything is in the hands of Allah
Is to remind them of what happened to the most blessed and best of creation
Sallallahu alaihi wasallam
He lost most of his children before he passed away
And he lost more than one wife before he passed away
Subhanallah
So he had lost many of his relatives
In fact he was born an orphan
And he lost his mother when he was also quite young
Thereafter we find a letter that was written
To Al-Mundir Ibn Sawah al-Abdi of Bahrain
The king of Bahrain
This man Abu Al-Ala al-Hadhrami was sent to him
Radhiallahu an
And when he got the letter he understood it
He accepted Islam and all the Arabs of Bahrain accepted Islam as well
They accepted Islam with him
And the Prophet Sallallahu alaihi wasallam received a response from him
And one of the methods of Rasulullah Sallallahu alaihi wasallam was that
He did not remove those people from the leadership that they were holding
But rather he helped them, he guided them and they remained the leaders
So he remained the leader of Bahrain
And he was instructed what to do with the others and so on
And he was given instructions by Rasulullah Sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Which he followed properly
Thereafter there was a letter also that was sent to one of the leaders of Yemen
One of the Umara, one of the leaders of Yemen
Who was known according to some of the historians as Badhan Ibn Sassan
And this man had accepted Islam, the same thing happened
The Prophet Sallallahu alaihi wasallam kept him there in Yemen
And even after he had passed away
His son was allowed to take over from him
And then there was a letter that was sent to the Amir of Busra
That was also going up north to the region of Ash-Sham
Where the Romans had been ruling
And the Prophet Sallallahu alaihi wasallam sent a companion known as
Al-Harith Ibn Umayr Al-Azdi radiallahu anhu
On the way to Busra, he passed Muqta
And in Muqta, Muqta is the name of an area
The Ghassanites, the people from the clan of Ghassan
They were ruling there
And one of the men Shara Habib Ibn Amr Al-Ghassani
He got hold of this ambassador of the Prophet Sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Where are you going? He says I'm going to the Amir of Busra
So he tied him up and executed him
So this was a messenger who was killed
Later on the Prophet Sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Prepared an army of 3000 men that marched on to Muqta
And inshallah we will get to that
By the will of Allah perhaps tomorrow
We will look into that particular war
The reason of that war with those Romans
Was because they had executed a man
Who was an ambassador from Rasulullah Sallallahu alaihi wasallam
To them
So people must not think that the Muslims went out
In order to spread their religion by the sword
Never did that happen, subhanallah
It was those who had attacked the Muslims
Those who had harmed them
Revenge was permitted, retaliation was permitted
And therefore, when they were attacked, they had attacked back
Here there was a man, one man was executed
What do you want the Muslims to do?
Sit back and wait for the rest of them to be attacked
Or prepare and go and tackle them
Why did you do this to our man?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a deep understanding
Thereafter there were letters also that were sent
Later on in the eighth year of Hijra
Remember these letters were not all sent together
I'm just clustering them together
But they were spaced out
Some of them were sent right at the beginning
Whilst others were sent even later on
Amr ibn al-Aas was not yet a Muslim
But after he accepted Islam
The Prophet ﷺ sent him as well to Oman
And there were two leaders there in Oman
It is reported the names were Jafar and Abd
They were known as Al-Jalandi
And these people, they accepted Islam as well
Amr ibn al-Aas, who had accepted Islam
By the time he had taken the letters and gone
He had then brought news to the Prophet ﷺ
Of the acceptance of Islam of these particular leaders
So these were just some of the letters
That were sent by Rasulullah ﷺ
As you notice what happened is
Islam spread
It spread further than Quraysh would ever have dreamt of
And this is why amazingly
Not only was Abu Sufyan from amongst those
Who heard with his own ears
What Heraclius had to say
But the others actually accepted Islam
And not only tribes, nations accepted Islam
Just by listening and by understanding this message is good
I haven't gone into the details
But there are very interesting details
Mentioned in the books of Seerah and the books of history
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a lesson
Now in the seventh year of Hijra, in Muharram
The Prophet ﷺ
Had had obviously a treaty with the people of Quraysh
So he was not fighting the people of Quraysh
Nor was he fighting those who were allied to the people of Quraysh
There was an agreement we won't fight
Ten years, peace
But what about those Jewish tribes in Khaybar
That had made the alliance
Or they were responsible for forming the alliance
Of the confederates that had come to fight
Resulting in the Battle of the Trench
The Prophet ﷺ did not forget that
He now told his people get ready we are going to Khaybar
Because these people from Banu al-Nadir
Remember there was a man known as Huyay ibn Akhtab
He was one of the leaders of Banu al-Nadir
He had also run away to Khaybar
But somehow he was in Banu Qurayzah
The time when Banu Qurayzah were being executed
And he was one of them who was also executed
At the time according to the books of Seerah
But however his people and some others were there
Including a daughter of his known as
Safiyyah binti Huyay
Later on to be known as Radiyallahu anha
She accepted Islam just after Khaybar
So the Prophet ﷺ prepared an army
And they went up to Khaybar
This they had fought these people of the book
And these people were sophisticated people
They had built their homes in a very sophisticated way
They had had three clusters of fortresses
The first cluster had three forts
The second cluster had two forts
And the third cluster had three forts
And they were built interleading in such a way
That you could actually disappear from one to the other
They were underground tunnels also
Interleading some of these forts
They were complicated people
They mastered the art of fighting, subhanallah
And they were well prepared for the Muslims
Because they knew, we are the ones who have assisted
And have had masterminded the whole alliance
And today we are sitting, those two have made peace
We are in trouble
So they knew this was coming
The Prophet ﷺ went to them, subhanallah
And the first thing he got to one of
I'm not going to take the names of every single fort
There are plenty forts
But he got to the first one
And as he got there, they wanted to fight him
The Prophet ﷺ thought
Let us cut down some of their trees
In order for them to see the numbers
That we have come in
And we are here seriously
We are here in order to retaliate
Their masterminding of the army
That came to wipe us out, subhanallah
And by the help of Allah, the Muslims had won
They were victorious
Remember the wind came
And the angels came and so on
So after they had cut it down
These people, they still wanted to fight
The Muslims overcame them
And they had run through to the next fort
See, subhanallah, very intelligent people
Then when it came to the second fort
What had happened?
The Prophet ﷺ surrounded them
And there was fighting that happened there again
There was an attack that took place
And after some time, it was quite difficult
These people were attacking
How were they attacking?
With arrows, with spears
And then Umar ibn Al-Khattab r.a succeeded
To get hold of one of the men
Who was trying to run away in the night
And when he caught him
He brought him to Rasulullah ﷺ
He says, oh messenger, I caught this man
So he says, look, don't harm me
If you don't harm me
I will give you information
Of how to overcome these people
So the Prophet ﷺ said
What is the news that you have?
He says, these people are preparing
To attack you tomorrow with their army
Meaning they are going to come weaponry
They want to attack you
If you overcome them
I will lead you to a house
Where there are so many catapults
Now they had huge catapults
What is known in the Arabic language
As a manjaniq, more like a cannon
Where they would put a ball of fire
On one end of it
And then literally propel that
In a way that it would get into
Wherever they wanted it to get into
And it would cause disaster and loss of life
And a fire and perhaps chaos
More like a little missile
As we would word it today
Missile launcher
But obviously of a long time ago
And what happened is
He said, there are these manjaniq
In this home
Together with so many different armors
And swords
And many different weapons
So it happened that the following day
They fought, the Muslims overcame them
They were led to this home
And before the Muslims actually went in
There is something historic
That took place in Khyber
So much of the seerah
So much of the ahadeeth
That make mention of rules and regulations
You find
If you were to look
Where did this come from?
It was when they were in Khyber
The Muslims spent just under a month in Khyber
According to some narrations
Which means a long period of time
They were in Khyber
And some of the forts
They had gone in without a battle
Some of them they had surrounded them
For a few days
Some of them they had fought
And got in
So there were different types of entrances
Into the forts by the Muslimin
That evening
The Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Looks at his companions
And he speaks to
Muhammad ibn Maslamah r.a
Who was a warrior?
He was known as one of the leaders
Of the Muslim armies
The Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam says
Tomorrow I will give this flag
To a man whom Allah and his messenger love
And he loves them
A man who loves Allah and his messenger
And they love him as well
So everyone spent the night
Hoping that it was going to be them
Umar ibn Al-Khattab r.a
Who says
Never ever had I hoped to be given
Some form of honor
Than that particular day
Because Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Is bearing witness
With the blessed lips
Of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
That a man who loves Allah
And his messenger
And Allah and his messenger
Love him too
In the morning
The Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Calls out
Where is Ali ibn Abi Talib r.a
So they said
Well he is somewhere
Because he is complaining of his eye
He had an infection in his eye
The Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Called him
And blew into his eye
With a slight bit of saliva
Going into his eye
And it was cured almost instantly
Subhanallah
This was a miracle of Nubuwa as well
He blew into the eye
And Ali r.a was cured
He gave Ali
That flag and that title
And the honor of the day
And he reminded Ali
That oh Ali r.a
You are going into Khaybar
You are going to enter here
Remember
لَأَنْ يَهْدِيَ اللَّهُ بِكَ رَجُلًا وَاحِدًا
خَيْرٌ لَكَ مِنْ حُمُرِ النَّعْمِ
For Allah to guide through you
One person is better for you
Than the most expensive
Of the material wealth
That we have here
It was known as
Which means the red camel
Red camel means
Today for example you have
What can we say
Top of the range motor vehicle
Says
This is better for you than that
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
So even whilst he was being sent
Into Khaybar he was warned
We should not be fighting to kill people
And you see there was something amazing
That Islam came up with
If there was a criminal
We need to listen very carefully
Because people have misunderstood this
If there was a criminal
Or there were people who were enemies
They had fought Islam
They had tried to murder
Or they had even caused murder
And they were caught marshaled
To be executed
And therefore armies went
In order to execute them
They had a way out
What was the way out?
They had something that people
Did not know before
Gift, what was the gift?
If you say
La ilaha illallah
Muhammadur Rasulullah
If you enter the fold of Islam
We will forget what happened in the past
We will become our brother
Instantaneously
This was amazing
So it does not mean that the Muslims
Killed people
Or murdered people
Because they wanted them to enter Islam
No
But the people who were murderers
And the people who were criminals
Were given an option
That you will be rehabilitated
Instantaneously by entering the fold of Islam
If you opt to do that
Some people opted
And they were saved
This is why the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam says
That it is amazing how
One man is murdering another
And yet both of them are going to be in paradise
Subhanallah
And we can give you many examples of that
Khalid ibn al-Walid r.a
He murdered companions who were in paradise
And by the will of Allah perhaps
He will also be in paradise
But more than Khalid ibn al-Walid r.a
We speak of the killer of Hamza
R.a
He became a Muslim
Things were deleted completely
So the Muslims
They did not compel people except Islam
No
All they said is
Look you people are criminals
You are going to be executed
Because of these crimes
That you know you have done
In most cases these people agreed
And they said no we definitely do know
We are guilty
And there if you really want
To be forgiven completely
There is one way out of that
You can enter the fold of Islam
And if you become our brother
Then we will forget about what happened in the past
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us understanding
I hope I have clarified that for people
Because many people to be honest with you
Think that Muslims fought and said
We are going to fight you until you accept Islam
What that means is
We will fight those who were criminals
But if they decide to accept Islam
Which we will invite them towards
Then we stop
We are not allowed to harm them
I have been ordered to fight the people
Here talking of the criminals
Who had fought Islam and who deserved
To be executed until
And unless they utter
If they utter that
I am not allowed to harm them
And their record is between them and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
In fact Usama bin Zayd radiallahu anhu
Was sent on one of the platoons
And he had met a man, one of the mushrikeen
And this mushrikeen was about to be executed
And he said
La ilaha illa Allah
Muhammadun rasulullah
I bear witness that there is none worthy of worship
But Allah
And I bear witness that Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Is his messenger
Usama bin Zayd executed him radiallahu anhu
When they got to Madina Munawwara
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Was visibly upset
Very very angry
And he said
How could you do that when he said
La ilaha illa Allah
How could you do that
Usama says
Oh messenger
According to me
He only said it to be saved from execution
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam said
And even if that was the case
Have you opened his chest to look at his heart
To see upon what condition he uttered those words
The minute they utter those words
They become your brothers in faith
Allahu Akbar
Today it's opposite
We have Muslims in our midst
We look for reason to take them out of Islam
Have you noticed that?
So we have people
Masha Allah
Muslims not only utter la ilaha illa Allah
They are in the masjid with you as well
Masha Allah
Reading Salat
They know the Quran and so on
And people today
Actually look for reason
To remove a person from the fold of Islam
And call him a non-Muslim
Where are we?
And where is the Sunnah of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Where?
He says once they utter the word
The rest is between them and Allah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wasallam open our doors
And may he grant us goodness
So then they had got from there
They fought
And the people of Khyber
From that particular fort
Or from the first group of forts
As we said they were three clusters
The Muslims were victorious
They proceeded to the second cluster
Something similar happened there
Where?
One by one they were either fought
Or they were surrounded
And some of them had surrendered
And so on
Every fort that they had gone into
They found a lot of wealth
A lot of wealth
Subhanallah
And they found different types of wealth
Different forts specialized
In keeping different types of wealth
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wasallam grant us
Goodness and may he grant us
Baraka in our own sustenance
When they got to the fourth fort
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Surrounded them for three days
Then someone told him
From amongst them
He said I will show you the water
The water that is coming in
Where it is coming into the fort from
So when the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Saw that
He blocked the water
In order to make them come out
Because they were heavily fortified
In no time they came out
They began to fight
They were overcome by the Muslimin
And thereafter they ran elsewhere
To the next fort
This was something amazing
And this is why
You find some of the names
Of the warriors of the Muslimin
Who had fought heavily on that day
One of them Ali ibn Abi Talib r.a.
The other Al-Hubab ibn Al-Mundhir r.a.
The third is Abu Dujana
The one who fought in Uhud
We say he was a warrior
MashaAllah
He had taken the sword
And until that sword was completely used
And batted
He continued in the battle of Uhud
And on this day as well
He was one of those warriors
Whom they all make mention of
How brave he was
Thereafter they had been surrounded
For a total of approximately
20 days in Khyber
And then the last two forts
They surrendered without any war whatsoever
They said look you know what
We're giving up
This was a heavy war MashaAllah
Allahu Akbar
And it resulted in great openings
For the Muslimin
And Quraysh was not involved
Because these people were not
Under the treaty of Quraysh
These were the people of Khyber
And the Prophet s.a.w. decided
That he will allow the people of Khyber
To remain in Khyber
On condition that whenever that agreement
Was to come to an end
The Prophet s.a.w. could bring in fact
The Prophet s.a.w. could bring that agreement
To an end at any time
To say when we want you to leave
We will give you notice
And you're going to have to go
They agreed
Because they know what crimes
They committed against the Muslims
Why would they agree
If they were innocent people
Why would the Muslims attack innocent people
That has never ever been the case
So this is why you find now in Khyber
This had happened
And the Prophet s.a.w. told them
You have all these date palms
And the farms of dates
Khyber is full of date palms
The Prophet s.a.w. said
You will work on them
They belong to us
But because of your work
Whatever produce comes out of it
You take half, we take half
Alhamdulillah
This helped the Muslims a lot
Because they did not have expertise
Number one, the Ansar did have expertise
The Muhajireen did not
But what was of importance is
The Muslim men were needed
For other escapades
And for other missions
And to spread Islam far and wide
So the Prophet s.a.w. decided to use them
And Khyber Mashallah produced a lot
So much so that Abdullah ibn Rawaha
Radhiallahu anhu
Used to be sent there
In order to take stock of the produce
They tried to bribe him once
Radhiallahu anhu
He says what are you talking about
You want to bribe me
I am coming from the most beloved person to me
To underestimate what you have
Or to write wrongly
I don't know what the exact term is
But I'm sure there is a term
Where they want him to lie
That the produce was less
Than what it actually was
So that they don't have to give the half
May Allah s.a.w. safeguard us
It's typical
May Allah s.a.w. protect us all
So in this way Mashallah
Khyber was victorious
Meaning the Muslims had been granted victory in Khyber
There was one major execution
That happened in Khyber
A man known as Kinanah ibn al-Rabiyah
The Prophet s.a.w. knew of the treasure
Of Huyaib ibn Akhtab
Who was the leader of Banu al-Nadir
And the Prophet s.a.w. knew that this man
Had taken that treasure
And it was now in Khyber
So he was looking for it
Because it was a treasure
It had in it a mask, some scent
And it had in it some jewelry
And some various other items
The Prophet s.a.w. asked Kinanah ibn al-Rabiyah
Where is it?
He said no, it went with the war
We spent it because we had to prepare
Buying all this and that
So we sold it and we bought weapons with it
He was lying
And this man was a criminal
So later on they found the whole treasure
The Muslims
The Prophet s.a.w. instructed that this man
We don't want to forgive him
Like we are going to forgive the rest
See the rest were forgiven
Why were they forgiven?
They pleaded with the Prophet s.a.w.
Please don't execute us
And please don't send us anywhere and so on
The Prophet s.a.w. agreed
It is reported that 93 from amongst them
Lost their lives on that day
From amongst the enemy
And from amongst the Muslims
15 martyrs
In the whole stay in Khyber
15 martyrs and from them 93
The rest of them were allowed to remain there
And they were working on the fields
From amongst those who were taken
Captive
Prisoner of war
One of them was Safiyah binti Huyay
The daughter of this Huyay ibn Akhtab
Who was executed in Banu Quraidah
So when she was taken captive
The Prophet s.a.w.
Then married her after she accepted Islam
Safiyah binti Huyay r.a
She became known as Ummul Mumineen
It is reported she became one of the most
Pious Muslim ladies that there was
Subhanallah
And she was such
She was a soft spoken person
And she had a lot of respect for the Rasulullah s.a.w.
Obviously being Ummul Mumineen
The Prophet s.a.w. married her
And protected that leadership
Meaning the high status
That she had had before
When she accepted Islam
She got an even higher status
Because now she was the wife of Rasulullah s.a.w.
She used to be the daughter of a leader
Now she became the wife of a supreme leader
Subhanallah
May Allah s.a.w. grant us understanding
And may He open our doors
And may He grant us really spouses
Who will be the coolness of our eyes
So Alhamdulillah
This was what happened in Khaybar
The Prophet s.a.w. was married
We spoke about his marriage to Ummu Habibah
Her name was Ramla binti Abi Sufyan
In Habasha
We spoke about the reasons
Here Safiyah binti Khayyai
And at the same time
There was a type of marriage
That was prevalent from the pagan days
On the day of Khaybar
The Prophet s.a.w. got up
And made an announcement
That Allah has revealed to me
That this type of marriage is prohibited
From this day on
What was the type of marriage?
From the pagan days
They used to marry a woman
When they were on journey
Or some way for convenience
They would marry a woman
With an expiry date
On the marriage certificate
Believe me
There was actually an expiry date there
Look at all the smiles here
Allahu Akbar
Allah safeguard us
This was known as Nikah al-Muta'ah
The Prophet s.a.w. clearly said
In ahadith that are extremely authentic
In most books of hadith
You will find the ahadith
On the day of Khaybar
He stood up and he made an announcement
That this type of marriage is prohibited
It was a pagan marriage
That followed through from the time
And as you know
Things were being made prohibited in stages
So on the day of Khaybar
That was prohibited
And at the same time
The consumption of donkeys was also prohibited
It was permissible before that
But from that day
The domesticated donkey prohibited
Nobody is allowed to eat that anymore
Subhanallah
So I see nobody eats donkeys
May Allah s.a.w. grant us protection
And may He open our doors
And as we said
This Nikah, a temporary marriage
Was prohibited by the Prophet s.a.w.
These marriages that are temporary
Known as Mut'ah
Where a person gets married for a few hours
Or a few days or a few months
Or a convenient time
And decides I will pay you in year
Of the amount of time I have stayed with you
Prohibited on the day of Khaybar
And we should all know this
And we should understand and realize this
As the ghanayim
Ghanayim
Ghanayim meaning the spoils of war
Were now being gathered
Something very, very powerful happened
Ja'far ibn Abi Talib r.a.
He came with the group of people
Who had migrated to Abyssinia
He arrived that day in Khaybar
Subhanallah
As he was coming back to Al-Madinah al-Munawwara
Khaybar is not very far out from Madinah al-Munawwara
Perhaps approximately 100 miles out of Madinah
So Ja'far ibn Abi Talib came with the
Rest of the sahabah r.a.
It's reported that when the Prophet s.a.w. saw him
He kissed him on his forehead
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And thereafter he gave them a good share
From what was received on the day of Khaybar
The Muslims became extremely wealthy
Subhanallah
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala had sent down
So many rules and regulations
Regarding what was received on the day of Khaybar
And it was given also to Ja'far ibn Abi Talib
And those who were very poor people
Who had gone to Habasha
Also something very interesting
Abu Musa al-Ash'ari
From the Ash'ari tribe
They had left Yemen
In order to get to Muhammad s.a.w.
They jumped into the boat
And they say their boat drifted
And it ended in Habasha
It ended in Abyssinia
They met Ja'far ibn Abi Talib r.a.
Remained there with him until the day he left
So they also arrived in Khaybar
Together with Ja'far ibn Abi Talib r.a.
Abu Musa al-Ash'ari r.a.
He has narrated so many hadiths
Of the Prophet s.a.w.
He says I was the youngest of the lot on that day
Alhamdulillah
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
This was what had happened at that particular time
Then after the battle of Khaybar
There were several groups of people
Who were also from amongst the people
Similar to those in Khaybar
Who had had settled in various places
The Muslim army went
And what they did is
One by one they struck agreements with them
They made peace with them in some places
There was a little bit of a skirmish
A bit of a war
And thereafter there was an agreement signed
And the Prophet s.a.w.
Either removed them or
He kept them in some instances
And told them you may plant
And you may harvest
And we will share half half
Just as we did with the people of Khaybar
So from amongst these were
Those of Wadi Al-Qura
Wadi Al-Qura was an area
Where the Muslims also became victorious thereafter
Fadak was also given to Rasulullah s.a.w.
By Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
For himself and his family
Which means whatever came from Fadak
It was meant for the clan of the Prophet s.a.w.
The poor from amongst them
Were looked after by it
More like an endowment
To look after those from there
Then after in fact there was another area
Also known as Tayma
Where also the Muslims had become victorious
After Wadi Al-Qura
Something very powerful happened
The Prophet s.a.w.
If you recall the previous year
They had been stopped from going
To fulfill the Umrah
Now a year later they were planning
To go for that Umrah
According to the agreement
Quraish said we will come out of the Haram
For three days you will come in
So the Prophet s.a.w.
Got his companions ready
According to one narration
He wore his Ahraam from the Masjid al-Nabawi
And as they went out by Dhul-Hulaifa
He instructed his companions
To take their weapons
They said oh messenger s.a.w.
We promised these people not to take our weapons
He said no we will not take them into the Haram
But in case someone intends to break
Any agreement we will be ready
This time we are going to have it
So they took their weapons
And they proceeded from the Dhul-Hulaifa
Until one of the
In fact the Mushriks had sent out a little army
When they got to the Muslims
They saw these people are heavily armed
They went back to report to Quraish
And Abu Sufyan and the others
That the Muslims are coming
But they are heavily armed
Immediately they sent messengers to say
Oh Muhammad s.a.w.
We never ever knew you
To break a single promise in your life
Why is it that you are coming with weapons
He said according to our agreement
We will not enter Makkah with weapons
So we will leave our weapons outside Makkah
And then we will enter
Subhanallah
So the Prophet s.a.w.
Was extremely intelligent
It is reported in some of the books of history
That had they not taken these weapons
Perhaps these people with their evil intentions
May have wanted to wipe out the Muslims
Only Allah knows
May Allah s.a.w. grant us strength
So the Prophet s.a.w.
Had had 70 camels
Sorry 60 camels for Hadi
Hadi meaning sacrificial animals
Which they wanted to sacrifice in Makkah al-Mukarramah
And when they got to a place
Known as Thaniyat Kada
They left some of the companions there
And they left their weapons there
And they proceeded into the Haram
Whilst Quraysh had just left the Haram
Haram meaning it is not such a big area
The Quraysh in fact the leaders had left
Some of the smaller people
Who were not so important in Quraysh
Were there
However what had happened is
They were sitting on a hillock
And they began to say
You see these people in a Haram
This is important we listen to this
Because it affects us when we go for Umrah
Now
The people of Quraysh began to say
You see these people in a Haram
They are sick
They have the disease of Yathrib
If you recall we said
In Madinah there was a disease
There was a plague or a flu
Or some form of a disease
That used to overtake them on an annual basis
And the Prophet s.a.w. made a dua
And this was actually taken out to Juhfah
So Quraysh was laughing
Look at these people
They are so thin
They are so small
We can wipe these people out
And you know they were just talking and laughing
Making a joke
The Prophet s.a.w. then ordered
What was known as Al-Yutibaa
And what is known as Ramal
So he instructed his companions to open
The right side of the Ahram
So that the arm is showing
To show the muscle on the right side
And stick the chest out
To show them that we are not little
You know people who are weaklings
We are strong men
And we walk in a proper way
As though an army is walking
Subhanallah
You see when an army is walking
The way they walk
They walk with proper posture
They don't walk slouched and so on
So as they were walking
In that particular way
The Prophet s.a.w. was on his camel
He made tawaf on his camel
And when he kissed the hajar
He did so with his stick
So he would touch the hajar with his stick
And then kiss the end of the stick
Which touched the hajar
This is how the Prophet s.a.w.
Made that particular tawaf
On that day of Umratul Qadha
It is known as Umratul Qadha
Because it is the Umrah
That took place as a result
Of being sent back one of the years
And coming back again
So basically they wanted to do it
The previous year
They were now recompensing it
By doing it the following year
So after three rounds
These mushriks ran away
So now they were instructed
Leave this open for the seven rounds
But you may now take it a bit calm
When you are walking
And for that reason up to today
When we as men go to Makkah for Umrah
We need to open the right arm
For the entire tawaf
All seven rounds
And we need to walk briskly
With our chests sticking out slightly
For the first three rounds
I'm sure we know this
This is the history of it
May Allah s.a.w. open our doors
And grant us goodness
The Prophet s.a.w. thereafter
When he had completed his Umrah
There was something that had happened in Makkah
A lady by the name of
Maymunatha bint Al-Harith
R.a.a. al-Hilaliyah
She was related to Umm al-Fadl
Being a sister and related to
Al-Abbas ibn Abdul-Muttalib
She was from amongst the Muslims
The early Muslims
Her husband had passed away as well
His name was Abu Rahm ibn Abdul-Uzza
And Al-Abbas r.a.a.
Wanted to get her married
To Muhammad s.a.w.
And she would then go with them
To Madina Munawwara
And at least be protected
So the Prophet s.a.w. agreed
Masha'Allah
And this was the last of the women
That he had married
Her name was Maymunatha bint Al-Harith
Al-Hilaliyah r.a.a
Not related to Juwayriya bint Al-Harith
Ibn Abi Al-Dhira
Who was someone else altogether
We spoke about her
But they were both co-wives
Of Muhammad s.a.w.
So he married her sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And he took her out with him
And only later on in Saraf
Saraf is an area just outside
Makkatul Mukarrama
Because they were only allowed
Three days in Makkah
After that they had to leave
The Prophet s.a.w.
Went to where the weapons were
And instructed those companions
To go and make their Umrah
When they came back
The Muslim army then left
The group of Muslims
When they got to an area
Known as Saraf
This is when they had the Walima
And this is when the Prophet s.a.w.
Consummated the marriage
With Maymunatha bint Al-Harith
R.a.a
And this was a gift
That Allah s.w.t. had granted
Rasulullah s.a.w.
If we take a look at this
We will come to know
That the Prophet s.a.w.
Was the most noble of all men
That existed
He looked after so many people
And he was related to so many people
And at the same time
Subhanallah
He was of the highest
Character and conduct ever
The highest level of character
The Quran says
Wa innaka la ala khuluqin azeem
Indeed you are on the highest level
Of character and conduct
Subhanallah
Before I close this evening
I want to make mention of
One of the gifts also
To the Muslim Ummah
That had been given
At that particular time
After Umrah al-Qadha
Khalid b.w.
R.a.a
Says
When the messenger came
When the messenger s.a.w.
Came for Umrah al-Qadha
I was a very shy person
I decided I'm going to go out
As well with the leaders of Quraysh
And I disappeared
I actually disappeared
I did not want to see the Muslims
And I did not want to face
Those whom I had fought
But
He says in my heart
I always knew
That I'm fighting
The losing party
In the losing party
I'm fighting in the losing party
Against those who are ultimately
Going to be victorious
He always knew it
He says
Whether it was in Uhud
Whether it was in Khandaq
Whether it was anywhere else
I always knew
That I'm not going to win
Even the platoon
That he was sent in
In order to weigh
Lay the messenger s.a.w.
When they were coming
For the Umrah
And they had then ended up
In Hudaibiyah
If you remember
They changed their path
Even then he says
You know what
This man
Subhanallah
He's somehow protected
So he had had this in his heart
And he was never very happy
He always felt
I'm doing something wrong
It is reported that
Rasulullah s.a.w.
Used to constantly ask
His brother
Al-Walid ibn Al-Walid
Who was a Muslim
And he was in
Madina Munawarah
He used to say
Where is Khalid?
A man like Khalid
So intelligent
He cannot be ignorant
Of the fact that
Islam is the correct religion
He's so intelligent
He cannot keep on
Worshipping his idols
And so on
And the Prophet s.a.w.
Continued to say
Ya ati bihi Allah
Allah will bring him soon
Khalid ibn Al-Walid says
That you know
He had some friends
He spoke to them and so on
Some gave him this response
That response
And he says
Thereafter
Amr ibn Al-As
And Uthman ibn Talha
The three of them decided
We're going to Madina Munawarah
And we're going to accept Islam
And this was just after
Umrat Al-Qadha
But what actually triggered it
Was something powerful
A letter written by
Al-Walid ibn Al-Walid
Who is the brother of
Khalid ibn Al-Walid
To his own brother Khalid
When he went for Umrat Al-Qadha
He went to search for his brother
He wanted to tell him
My brother come on
You cannot continue
On the wrong side
You've missed a lot of goodness
But because he didn't
Meet his brother
He wrote a letter and left it there
The brother came back
Read the letter from his brother
He's saying you know what
Oh Khalid
You are on the wrong camp
You are in the wrong side
In the wrong camp
On the wrong side
And at the same time
Oh Khalid
You are missing so much goodness
We are living in such goodness
We have highest character
Conduct
We are worshipping Allah alone
We have left all the evil of the past
And so on
Subhanallah
Khalid ibn Al-Walid
It was written in the letter
That the messenger
Keeps asking about you
And he has hope
That you are definitely
Going to come
And he has told us
That you are going to come
So Khalid ibn Al-Walid
Closed that letter
He asked a few people
Some questions
He got hold of two of his friends
Amr ibn Al-Asr radiallahu anhu
As well as
Uthman ibn Talha radiallahu anhu
The three of them went to
Madina Munawwara
And I'm cutting the story
A little bit short
When they got to
Madina Munawwara
They went
And his brother told him
Make haste
Go to Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He knows you are coming
And he's waiting for you
So he wore some good clothing
He had a bath and so on
And they rushed to
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Subhanallah
What happened?
One of the great warriors
One of those who was fighting
Against Islam
Has now turned to Islam
Khalid ibn Al-Walid
The man who was guilty
Of slaughtering so many Muslims
On the day of Uhud
Here he is
He came to Madina
Safe and sound
He says
Oh messenger
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
These are his first words
He says
Make dua
That Allah forgive me
For every time
I have been used
In order to attack
Yourself and the Muslims
And all the harm
That I have caused
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Says
Ya Khalid
Oh Khalid
Islam deletes
All the bad
That was done before it
The minute you accept Islam
Everything wiped out
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Had a smile
Then
In some narration
Say he repeated this thrice
And Khalid
Radhiallahu anhu
Says
Ala thalik
Upon that condition
Which means
If it is that
Alhamdulillah
We thank Allah
Subhanahu wa ta'ala
He forgives us
Now we thank Allah
Subhanahu wa ta'ala
He entered the fold of Islam
And this is
The story of how
Khalid bin al-Walid
Radhiallahu anhu
Accepted Islam
Thereafter
Amr ibn al-As
And Uthman ibn Talha
Also declared their shahada
Although
Amr ibn al-As
Radhiallahu anhu
Says
That I already had
The Islam
Within my heart
And my heart was
Softened towards
Islam already
The day when I went back
To Najashi
In order to lie to him
In order to get
Ja'far ibn Abi Talib
And the
The Muslimin
Back from Habasha
On that day
When Najashi
Got so upset
And he told me
I know that
What Muhammad has come with
Is indeed the truth
On that day
Already
Islam had
Started entering my heart
In fact
Ibn Hajar
And some of the others
Say that
Amr ibn al-As
Initially accepted Islam
In Habasha
But
He had announced
His Islam
When he came with
Khalid ibn al-Walid
So by these
Years
Accepting Islam
From amongst
The leaders of
Quraish
They were considered
Leaders of the
The army of
Quraish
Subhanallah
Islam had been
Granted so much
Strength
And there was
A new era
In the Muslims
In Medina
Munawara
And in the region
On one hand
You have people
Entering Islam
You have groups of
People coming to
Medina
To declare their
Islam
You have people
Who are accepting
Islam
You have Quraish
Their numbers are
Diminishing
And at the same time
People who are
Supporting them
Are diminishing them
Sorry
Are diminishing
The Quran says
Do they not see
That we have come
To the earth
Cutting its sides
From around them
Which means
Their grip
On what they were
Ruling
Is becoming smaller
And smaller
Quraish is becoming
More and more
Singular
Than they ever were
Before
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Have mercy on us
Tomorrow inshallah
We will continue
We have a few more days
And we hope and pray
That Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant us a blessed ending
To this series
For indeed
We are in the month of
Ramadan
Let's make most of
The most of this month
To earn the pleasure
Of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
And to learn more
About the seerah
Of Rasulullah
Sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Wa sallallahu wa sallam
Wa wa baraka ala